[♪♪♪]
ELIZABETH:
While my world is on hold
until Jack returns
from the Northern Territories,
life goes on
in Hope Valley.
The residents here
continue to work hard
to keep our community thriving
and our families strong.
Moving forward,
we must never forget the past.
As always,
life presents challenges,
but we rely on each other
to see them through.
Clara, thank you for watching
the café while I'm gone.
Sure. Dottie understands.
I'm not sure I do.
You were called as a witness
for Gowen's defense?
Yes.
But he's corrupt!
He stole from the town
and then tried to cover it up.
Yes, he did do
all those things,
but he has
done some good.
I'm being called
as a character witness
to talk about that.
I hope he knows
he's lucky to have you.
Henry's
a complicated man.
My father told me
to stay away
from complicated men.
Ha, good advice.
How long will you
be gone, Abigail?
Oh, not that long.
We're the last of the witnesses.
"We"?
[♪♪♪]
LEE:
Make sure you tell 'em
we need that replacement blade
by Tuesday, at the latest.
Yes, sir.
[GROANS]
You okay?
Yeah,
it's just a stomachache.
Well, make sure
Carson has a look at that, then.
Bill.
Bill! Hey!
Well, you seem
awfully chipper.
You don't.
I have to leave
town to testify.
I hate going to court.
A bunch of pretense,
if you ask me.
Anyway, I have
a favor to ask.
Sure. Fire away.
I need to leave
someone in charge.
Okay. In charge of what?
Of the town.
As acting sheriff.
[LAUGHS]
Me?
Oh, you're serious?
Oh... No, Bill.
That's really not my thing.
It's no one's thing,
till it is.
[SIGHS]
Well...
Right. Um...
I would love to help you,
but...
I just, I mean,
I have to run the mill.
It'll only be
for a few days.
You can send a wire
to Cape Fullerton
if anything comes up
you can't handle.
Oh! Good morning,
Bill.
Hello, love of my life!
Mwah! Mm!
LEE:
Thank you. Okay.
What can I say?
We're a chipper family.
What's going on?
I'm asking your husband
to perform
his civic duties.
He always does!
Rosemary--
You do!
You're the most civic-minded man
in all of Hope Valley!
Sweetheart--
I knew I could
count on you.
Raise your right hand.
You're hereby
deputized.
Oh! Did you just
become sheriff?
Yes! Thanks to you.
[LAUGHS]
Oh, you're welcome.
[♪♪♪]
So, let me
get this straight.
Bill, you're testifying
for the prosecution,
and you're testifying
for the defense?
Yes, that's right.
I'll be
giving facts.
She'll be offering
her opinion.
I'll be giving facts,
thank you very much.
Oh! Well, should be
an interesting stagecoach ride.
[LAUGHS]
Yes!
Thank you
for watching Cody.
Oh, it's my pleasure.
After all,
we are family.
Did I hear someone
say "family"?
Julie?
Oh! Oh, my goodness!
Hi!
It's so good
to see you!
[LAUGHING]
Hi, Julie!
Welcome.
It's nice
to have you back.
Thank you.
Oh! This is
my sister, Julie.
Hi. Leland Coulter.
This is my wife, Rosemary.
Pleasure.
Pleasure!
You didn't write
to say you were coming.
Well, I wanted
to surprise you.
And you have certainly
accomplished that.
I'll be back
in a few days
and we can
to catch up then.
Make sure there's a town here
when I get back.
I will do my best.
[BOTH GIGGLING]
[♪♪♪]
Got the coffee here.
There you go.
Can I top you up?
Perfect.
Enjoy.
Coffee?
Please.
Ha.
You know what
I love about you?
How dedicated you are
to everything you do.
Even pouring coffee.
But even you
need a break.
Sit down,
have some breakfast with me.
Jesse, I can't,
I have tables waiting.
All right. You know,
I'm really looking forward
to our date tonight.
Me too.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Really?
I've got to get back to it.
Okay. I'll pick you up
around 6?
Perfect.
[♪♪♪]
BILL:
Have you ever testified?
I've never been
on a witness stand.
Well, get ready.
Bear traps
in every direction
and vultures ready to pounce.
You make it sound
pretty gruesome.
Well, it can be.
Do you think
Henry will go to prison?
His crimes will dictate
his punishment, not me.
Well, what we say
on the stand matters,
or why else
would we be going?
I'm going to present
the facts.
Well, the fact is,
there is some good in Henry.
Abigail, you tend to see
the good in people.
My job is to see the bad,
and there's a lot of bad
in Henry.
[♪♪♪]
Hmm. No fever.
Well, that's good.
How long have you had
this abdominal pain, Mike?
A few days.
Any other symptoms?
Any headaches
or sneezing?
Nothing, other than
my stomach.
Hmm. Do you think
it might be an infection?
It's hard to say,
but since there's no fever
or any other concerning signs,
I think bed rest
is what's best for now.
[SIGHS]
I'll be fine.
Suit yourself,
but if the pain
worsens,
you let us know.
Thank you.
[♪♪♪]
JULIE:
I'm so excited
for the wedding.
ELIZABETH:
Me too.
Whenever that is.
I miss him so much.
Well, of course,
you do!
But now you have me
to keep you company.
Hmm! Is that
why you're here?
To keep me company?
I can't fool you, can I?
No, you can't.
Okay. Well...
I have been doing
a lot of thinking.
Soul-searching, really...
And I've landed on what
I want to do with my life.
Oh?
I want to be a teacher.
Really?
You? A-- A teacher?
Why not?
I am good with kids,
and I want to have an impact
on their lives, just like you.
I know, but...
I didn't make
a rash decision
to become a teacher.
I wanted to be one
my whole life.
This isn't something
I just decided upon
because other parts
of my life weren't working out.
Is that what you think?
That my life
isn't working out?
Julie, I'm sorry.
That's not what I meant.
Everyone just thinks
I'm this flighty girl
who has no real direction.
Julie--
But I am more than that,
Elizabeth,
and I'm going
to prove it to you.
And I appreciate
your conviction.
But it takes hard work
to become a teacher.
You have to observe
in the classroom,
and study, and take
the boards--
I know
I have a lot to learn,
which is why I came to you.
I want to be
your apprentice!
My apprentice?
Exactly!
When can we start?
Oh...
Hey.
Ready to go?
Have you been crying?
No.
You have.
Jesse, it's nothing.
No. Something's wrong.
[INHALES DEEPLY]
Today's my anniversary.
[CHUCKLES, SNIFFS]
The day I married Peter.
It's sort of on my mind,
that's all.
You want to just
skip tonight?
You're a great guy, Jesse.
You don't deserve this.
I don't deserve you.
[SNIFFLES]
Hey...
Why are you
looking at me like that?
[BREATHING SHAKILY]
I thought that I was ready
to move on.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm not.
What are you saying?
[EXHALING]
Uh...
Maybe we should
take a little break.
Don't jump to that.
It's your anniversary.
I get it.
We'll be fine.
We will...
after a little break.
We talking a "break"
or "break-up"?
Just a break.
I need to collect
my thoughts.
Get beyond this,
once and for all.
Okay.
[♪♪♪]
[FOOTSTEPS RECEDING]
I suppose.
CARSON:
You are the second person
in a couple days
to come in.
What do I have?
Maybe just a virus.
Go home
and get some rest.
I'll check on you
in a day.
Thank you, Dr. Shepherd.
Yeah.
So both of you
have a stomachache?
Yes.
There is something
going on here.
Who's eaten out
in the last couple days?
I-I have.
No.
Have either of you
come into contact
with someone
who had a stomachache?
Not that I know of.
I don't think so.
It's probably not
from a common eating place,
and there's no clear
indication of a virus.
I did feel myself
coming down with a cold,
but my medicine
took care of that.
Now I've got
this bad cramping.
I had a headache yesterday,
and I took medicine for that.
What medicine
did you take?
BOTH:
Dr. Bellemore's
Miracle Tonic.
Miracle Tonic?
[♪♪♪]
[PEOPLE CHATTERING
INDISTINCTLY]
I'm looking for
Mr. Archie Reed?
Thank you.
[CLEARS THROAT]
Mr. Reed?
Yeah?
I'm Abigail Stanton.
Oh! My character witness.
Thank you for coming.
Call me Archie.
Your office told me
I could find you here, Archie.
Well, they know me
very well.
Have a seat.
Thank you.
So how is
the trial going?
Well, um...
Oh. That good, huh?
I got the attempted murder
and bribery charges dropped.
That was the railroad
guy's doing, Ray Wyatt.
But the misappropriation-
of-funds charge,
that's hanging over Henry's head
like a guillotine.
Yeah, I think he did that.
I need to at least
humanize him.
That's where you come in.
Right after the prosecution
calls its last witness.
You mean Bill Avery.
Yeah, him.
Hm.
[♪♪♪]
Oh, ho! Absolutely,
it cures gout.
Just remember
the proper doses.
And I'll see you Monday.
Good day, sir!
Ah-hah. Good day.
I heard you been in town,
what, a couple days?
That's right.
Whatcha selling?
Uh, health, vitality,
and a good disposition.
What are you seeking?
"Dr. Lou Bellemore."
What, are you a medical doctor?
No. No, I am not.
I'm a practitioner
of the ancient healing arts
that existed long before
there were medical schools.
That is my best seller.
It cures headaches,
colds, acne, even gout.
And it'll put a little
spring in your step.
What's in it?
It's my own secret formula.
Chock-full of vitamins
and minerals.
Could you be
a little more specific?
Sir...my formula
is my livelihood.
And my secret.
Hence the term
"secret formula."
How much?
Fifty cents.
Pretty steep.
Can you put a price
on good health?
[COINS JANGLING]
Okay.
Thank you.
[♪♪♪]
Perfect timing!
Hi, there.
[QUIETLY]
So...
Julie told me
she wants to be
a teacher,
and she wants to be
my apprentice!
Oh. Dear.
That is...daunting.
I know my sister.
Julie is
a wonderful person,
but she likes
to have fun
more than she likes to work.
I just don't think
she has the commitment
it takes to be a teacher.
Yes, I know.
It takes a strong will
and a lot of patience
to put up with those children
all day long.
Rosemary, that's not what
being a teacher is all about.
It's a destiny.
A calling.
I just don't know
if it's Julie's.
Have you discussed that
with her?
No. I don't know
how to tell her.
You shouldn't.
Excuse me?
You should
show her.
Just let Julie observe
you in the classroom
for a few days. Once she sees
what it's really like,
then she'll realize
it's not for her...
or anyone else
with a refined constitution,
for that matter.
You know,
it's actually not a bad idea.
Of course, it's not.
I don't have those.
[CHUCKLES]
[MUTTERS]
"I don't have those."
[♪♪♪]
Bill Avery.
Miss Pardell!
[CHUCKLES]
Please.
Seeing how this
is our second round
as witness
and prosecutor,
call me Georgia.
Have a seat.
How many years
has it been?
About nine?
Yeah.
Now, as I recall,
testifying isn't
your favorite activity
in the world.
[LAUGHS]
Next to being pinned
to a tree by a wild boar.
I'll try not to take
that too personally.
Please, don't. It's not you.
It's the other side.
Then we're in agreement.
I see them
as snakes in the grass.
That works for me too.
So, why did you
take this case?
Henry Gowen.
My entire office
was disappointed
when he walked
in that mining case.
But I'm taking
him down now.
Well, sounds personal.
It's personal to me when
someone escapes justice.
Well, word
of caution.
That guy's been known to be
a little slippery.
Doesn't matter.
You sound confident.
I'm supremely confident.
What do you smell?
Menthol...
eucalyptus...
maybe some honey?
Now what do you smell?
Garlic.
You know what else
smells like garlic when heated?
No.
Arsenic.
[♪♪♪]
So, what's the big deal?
Arsenic is dangerous.
Yeah, but it's
also medicine.
We had the stuff
at my house growing up.
Not anymore.
Too much of it can be fatal.
How much is too much?
Depends, that's why
it should be a doctor
administering it.
Is that the law?
No! But it should be.
Well, I'm not here to enforce
what should be the law.
I'm not here to enforce
what is the law, either,
but that's entirely--
People are getting sick.
Four people
have gotten sick.
And you don't know
if they're related.
Rosemary made me chili
last week.
I was sick for four days.
You cannot tell her
I said that.
What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna continue to do
what I'm doing,
and that is count every minute
till Bill gets back.
I'm really sorry, Carson.
I can't help you.
I wish I could.
[♪♪♪]
BILL:
I found AJ Foster
in Bishop Falls.
GEORGIA:
And what did she tell you?
BILL:
She told me
when she was auditing
the bank's books,
she found a paper trail
that showed that Henry Gowen
was funneling town funds into
his own personal bank account.
And that Ray Wyatt had
threatened her and bribed her
to create
a new set of phony books.
Are these the real set of books
that she provided you?
Yes, that's them.
No further questions.
AJ Foster is currently
a fugitive, isn't that right?
Yes, she is.
And she's wanted for,
among other things,
lying under oath
to the Inspector General,
correct?
That's correct.
So...she's a liar.
She's not lying
about this.
Well, liars lie. You don't know
the real truth.
How could you?
Ray Wyatt sent an assassin
to keep her quiet.
That tells me
all I need to know.
JUDGE:
I agree.
Now change your line
of questioning, Mr. Reed,
or sit down.
[♪♪♪]
[PEOPLE CHATTERING
INDISTINCTLY]
You looking for a table?
[SCOFFS]
More like a seat
at a table.
You're welcome to this one.
Thank you.
There you go.
I'm Jesse Flynn.
Pleasure to meet you.
I'm Julie Thatcher.
Oh! You must be
Elizabeth's sister.
Yes, I am.
Okay.
What on Earth is that?
Oh,
just some delicious beans.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
There's not much
on the menu.
If you want more variety
and great food,
you should check out
Abigail's cafe.
So, why aren't you there?
Um...
my girl works there.
At least...
she was my girl.
Last time we talked,
she asked for a break.
[PEOPLE CHATTERING
INDISTINCTLY]
[♪♪♪]
[INAUDIBLE DIALOGUE]
ELIZABETH:
Good morning, everyone!
Today, we have
a very special visitor.
Please welcome my sister,
Miss Julie Thatcher,
who is thinking
of becoming a teacher.
STUDENTS:
Good morning,
Miss Thatcher!
Thank you, Eliz--
Miss Thatcher.
Mm-hm.
Please, everyone,
just do what you do.
Don't mind me.
Fly on the wall.
[♪♪♪]
All right, um, today,
we will be starting
with a very exciting...
geography quiz!
[CLASS GROANS]
All right,
who can think of a country
that starts with
the letter G?
LAURA:
Germany!
ELIZABETH:
Very good.
And on what continent
would we find Germany?
CODY: Europe!
That's right!
How about a country
that starts with the letter A?
STUDENT:
Argentina.
Mm-hmm. And if
we were visiting a continent,
where would
we find Argentina?
South America.
ELIZABETH:
That's right! Very go--
[SHRIEKS]
[BOYS CHUCKLE]
Um...C?
China!
Continent?
Asia.
[♪♪♪]
D.
Timmy?
[STAMMERING]
Um...
Denmark.
Continent, Robert?
Europe?
Correct.
Timmy, Robert,
if there's any more
misbehaving,
you'll be staying inside
for recess.
Okay, Miss Thatcher.
Sorry, Miss Thatcher.
Would you kindly liberate
this creature outdoors?
Certainly. Ahem.
Thank you.
B?
Burma.
Good one, Timmy!
H?
[♪♪♪]
You slept late!
I know.
I think all
the extra hours
at the mill are
catching up with me.
Oh, what's with
the big, fancy spread?
Well, you have been
working so much at the mill
and, of course,
being the sheriff,
you have a lot
on your plate,
so I decided you needed
a lot on this plate too.
Sweetheart,
I'm not the sheriff.
Lee Coulter,
you most certainly are.
By the way,
where is your badge?
The badge is in my pocket.
You are the law
until Bill comes back.
People need
to know that.
Hmm.
I just don't think I'm cut out
for it, that's all.
I am sure,
in your short tenure,
you will go down
in history
as one of
the best sheriffs
in the history
of all sheriffs.
I appreciate your
confidence in me,
it's very cute,
but I just don't--
No. Just shh!
You... are
a natural born leader.
Mm.
You are doing
a great job.
Thanks, sweetheart.
Mm-hmm.
One more.
ELIZABETH:
Everyone, that concludes
our grammar lesson for the day.
Now, for your homework, please
do pages 31 and 32 in your book.
Is it time for art class yet,
Miss Thatcher?
Why, yes, it is.
Sorry!
I heard
"Miss Thatcher"
and I just figured
she was talking to me.
[LAUGHS]
Well, Laura, it is
time for art class,
and today, we will continue
painting with watercolors.
Mm. Would you please pass
these out for me, Miss Thatcher?
Oh, I thought
you'd never ask.
Thank you.
Wow! That's really good.
Thanks.
I like the soft edges
of your sun,
and the way it melts into
the sharper edges of the water.
STUDENT:
I tried hard
to make that work.
You used
the perfect mixture
of paint and water
to achieve that effect.
Do you want to help me
blend the colors of the sky?
Of course!
First...
we'll need to start
with a thinner layer of blue.
[♪♪♪]
Opal, are you all right?
No.
There you go.
Thank you, Doctor.
You got it.
Oh, hey, Opal.
Is your tummy
hurting?
She says
she's in a lot of pain.
Come.
Let's take a look at you.
Did your mommy give you
medicine recently?
Yeah?
Was it in a blue bottle
called "tonic"?
Yeah.
[♪♪♪]
Okay.
You're gonna be
just fine.
Come on.
And then he said to me--
Wait, hold on a second.
Hey, Julie!
Wait up.
Hi, Jesse.
I heard you were
in class today.
That's right.
We never stop
learning, do we?
[JULIE LAUGHS]
[♪♪♪]
How are you doing, Henry?
Well, I've had better days.
And I imagine
I'm gonna have worse.
I heard they dropped
the attempted murder and bribery
charges against you.
Well, I'm still
looking at 10 years
for stealing town funds.
Why did you do it, Henry?
Why does anybody
do anything?
I think
you owe me an explanation.
Growing up,
I didn't have much of anything.
Just a dirt floor
in a sharecropper's shack.
If I wanted
something...
I had to take it.
And you never
stopped taking.
Something like that.
Look, I'm not--
I'm not holding out for mercy.
[SCOFFS]
Well, I'll be
doing that for you.
For all the bad things
I've done,
I must've done
something right.
Why is that?
Because, for some odd reason
that I don't understand,
you still seem
to believe in me.
[♪♪♪]
Easy, boys.
Easy.
We're going
for a little trip.
Here we go.
[PEOPLE CHATTERING
INDISTINCTLY]
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Now, tell me.
What has surprised you
the most about being sheriff?
Well, when I took the job,
I didn't know
if I was gonna like it.
[CHUCKLES]
Yes, I remember.
Mm-hm.
I guess I would say
what surprised me most
is just how much
I don't like it.
[ROSEMARY LAUGHING LOUDLY]
[♪♪♪]
Well, Mr. Grumpy-Pants,
you are doing a great job.
Peace reigns
over Hope Valley.
Someone stole my wagon!
Lee!
Go!
Yes. Yes, yes, yes.
We'll go. Okay.
It was right there
and now it's gone.
Are you sure
you tied it down?
'Course I did.
I don't want
you chasing horse thieves
all through the night!
It's all right.
I think I know who took it.
I'll be right back.
Who?
CARSON:
Good evening, Lee.
Carson.
Um...
Unfortunately, I am here
in my official capacity
as acting sheriff.
Yeah, I figured.
Mm-hmm.
I don't really
have the skill set
to get a confession
out of you, but...
I don't think I need that,
do I?
Nope. I took his wagon,
I hid it in the woods.
Right. Well, um...
I'm gonna need you
to give that back.
That's not gonna happen.
I was afraid
you were gonna say that.
Lou Bellemore hasn't
broken any laws,
that I can tell.
But you just did.
I'm sorry,
Carson.
I have
looked everywhere.
I understand.
Elizabeth!
Did you hear?
Hear what?
Clara told Dottie,
who told Florence,
who told Molly--
What?
Apparently, Julie
is trying to steal
Jesse away from Clara.
You can't repeat
a word of that.
That has to stay
between the two of us.
Rosemary, Julie has
only been in town
for a couple of days.
Now she's in
the schoolroom with me,
as you suggested.
Elizabeth,
it is only natural
for you to want
to defend your sister,
but truth is truth.
And idle gossip
is idle gossip.
Besides, I heard
that Clara
and Jesse broke up.
Well, who's
gossiping now?
They did not break up.
They are taking
a little break.
There's a difference
between the two.
NED:
Elizabeth?
Telegram for you.
ELIZABETH:
Thank you, Ned.
Certainly.
Is it Jack?
Oh, no.
Is it bad news?
It's not bad news,
but it isn't good news either.
Lee, what's going on?
I had to arrest him.
Oh, goodness, Lee! What?
I have to uphold
the peace, right?
Because of
Lou Bellemore?
That's ridiculous!
Opal was sick earlier.
Carson said
it was his tonic.
It is.
Well, I don't
know that.
What're we gonna do
if someone needs an operation?
You know how long it took to get
a doctor to come to this town?
I tell you what,
just get me back my wagon back
and I'll be on my way.
What, so you can sell
your tonic in the next town?
No.
I know the way.
All right, let's go.
Where?
Jail. You're going too.
For what?
For being a nuisance.
Michael, I need you too.
Hickam?
Uh-uh-uh-uh! No.
Same cell.
Now, Michael,
I'm not sure how this works,
but you are now deputized.
You need to keep an eye
on these guys tonight.
Make sure
they don't kill each other.
Am I really
a deputy?
About as much
as I'm a sheriff.
Good luck!
[DOOR CLOSES]
[♪♪♪]
Good morning, sweetheart.
Oh...kay.
Ahem.
[SIGHS]
[THUMPS]
Rosie, what choice did I have?
Oh, I don't know!
Maybe not arresting
the town's only doctor
just for doing his job?
It's not his job
to be a vigilante.
[SCOFFS]
You're such a stickler
for the law!
I have to be!
I'm the sheriff.
No thanks to you,
I might add.
Listen.
I'm not gonna
keep Carson in jail.
You're not?
Of course not! No!
I don't know anything
about "sheriffing,"
but, in business, when you have
two sides that can't agree,
sometimes,
the best thing to do
is to lock 'em
in a room together.
Except, in this case,
the room...
is a jail cell.
Exactly.
Now can I have my kiss?
[CHUCKLES]
Mm.
And some breakfast.
Please. Please.
Thank you.
[LAUGHS]
[♪♪♪]
Laura is quite
the artist.
Mm. Well, it was
your first love as a child too.
Still is.
There's a lot
you don't know about me.
More than you know.
Like the fact
that you came to Hope Valley
under false pretenses.
What are you talking about?
Mother sent me
this telegram.
You didn't tell them
you were coming
to visit me,
or that you were pursuing
a career in teaching.
Because
they would've stopped me.
I'm tired of living
under Father's thumb.
He thinks
I'm a failure.
Julie, I want you
to find your path.
I really do.
Telling me you had
Mother and Father's blessing,
when you didn't...
Okay, I'm sorry
I didn't say anything.
To make matters worse,
now you're spending
time with Jesse Flynn.
Why is that a bad thing?
Because he and his girlfriend
are on a break,
and it doesn't
look good.
I was giving him advice
on how to win Clara back!
You were?
When I saw how much
he loved Clara,
it touched my heart.
He really
misses her, so...
I was helping him figure out
how to get her back.
Julie, I'm sorry,
I didn't know.
That's right,
because you don't believe in me.
Miss Thatcher,
will you help us
play jump rope again
like you did yesterday?
Please?
Of course, girls!
Let's go.
[♪♪♪]
CARSON:
You know,
I've been thinking.
Since your tonic
just started hurting people,
you must've recently
added arsenic.
I told you,
my formula is secret.
You're just
a snake-oil salesman
out to make a quick buck.
That is not true.
For your information,
when it comes
to curing what ails,
there is a place for both of us.
No, there isn't.
Long before
there were doctors,
people were treating themselves
with herbs
and a secret ingredient
they didn't even realize--
Another secret ingredient?
But this one
I'll tell you.
It's called
the power of believing.
And that is a miracle drug
science hasn't topped.
[♪♪♪]
When I first started
my practice...
a 13-year-old girl
came in
who hated looking at herself
in the mirror.
She had some skin blemishes.
I told her,
"Give it some time.
It'll clear up."
I was young.
I couldn't see how much
it mattered to her.
Had I been able to,
maybe I could've stopped her
from taking a tonic.
She nearly died
and was never quite the same.
I know you think
you're helping people
by adding arsenic,
but more and more doctors
are moving away from it.
You're actually
hurting people.
ABIGAIL:
You ready to go?
BILL:
Yeah. I want to talk
to you for a second.
I don't want you
getting your hopes up
that your testimony
is going to make a difference.
Why is that?
This judge is known
as the "hanging judge."
Lots of judges
have that reputation.
Well, this one
lives up to it.
Bill, what aren't
you telling me?
I heard this judge
had a son
who'd get in trouble.
Nothing big.
At 16, he took the neighbor's
horse for a joy ride.
The neighbors were upset, but
they didn't wanna press charges.
It didn't matter.
He took his kid,
locked him in a room,
and called the sheriff,
to have him come
and arrest him.
The kid escaped
and ran away.
What happened to him?
They haven't heard from him
or seen him since.
Oh, and if the judge
would do that
to his own son,
he's not going
to show Henry any mercy.
He imposes the maximum
sentence in every case.
[SIGHS]
[♪♪♪]
CARSON:
Lee.
I'm ready to take him
to his wagon.
Yeah, and I'm not
pressing charges.
What about
the arsenic?
We have
an understanding.
Glad to hear it.
Michael,
what are you waiting for?
Put the sandwich down
and let 'em out.
Henry is not
a perfect human being,
but who among us is?
As the new mayor
of Hope Valley,
what would you say
about your predecessor's
job performance?
I've learned firsthand
that it's not easy being a mayor
of a frontier town.
You have to oversee
both the town council
and law enforcement.
People look to you
for answers,
and everyone
has different priorities.
Henry projected leadership
and made tough calls,
and, as a result,
he brought jobs to Hope Valley
and our town prospered.
No further questions.
GEORGIA:
Mr. Gowen basically
bankrolled your cafe, didn't he?
I guess
you could say that.
Did he also buy
your testimony today?
He most certainly did not.
He retrieved
your adopted daughter
when she was stuck
in a storm.
That has nothing to do
with my testimony.
You feel beholden to him,
don't you?
That doesn't change--
This is your way
of paying him back.
He's part of my community!
We help each other.
Your Honor,
if you're going
to judge the man,
judge the whole man.
The man who was willing
to take a bullet
for Bill when
Ray tried to kill him.
Yes, the man
who risked his life
to bring my daughter home.
I know you will decide
his guilt or innocence...
but I would ask you
to remember
that it's not wrong to give
someone a second chance
or to believe in the power
of redemption.
What's the alternative,
Your Honor?
We may lose the person we love
and never see them again.
CARSON:
Okay. There it is.
The complete list
of all the minerals and vitamins
that are safe for consumption.
LOU: New and improved formula!
Yes, that it is.
Sure to make people
twice as strong
and at least
10 times smarter.
Well, you know, let's
not get too carried away.
Ah.
[TONIC SPLASHING]
The defendant will rise.
Ahem.
[♪♪♪]
I find you, Henry Gowen...
...guilty
of the misappropriation
of public funds.
I'm sentencing you
to 10 years,
which is the maximum
allowed by statute.
However,
as is my prerogative,
I'm crediting you
with time served
and granting you
immediate parole.
Should you violate
the terms of this parole,
you will be brought back
to serve the remainder
of your sentence.
You have one last chance,
Mr. Gowen.
Don't make a fool of me.
I will not, Your Honor.
JUDGE:
We're done here.
[GAVEL BANGS]
[♪♪♪]
That man has more lives
than a litter of cats.
Come on.
[♪♪♪]
[ALL CHATTERING
INDISTINCTLY]
All right, class,
settle in.
Now, today,
we are going to be doing things
a little differently.
Like what,
Miss Thatcher?
Well, Opal, for one,
we're going to let
the other Miss Thatcher
start class.
Today,
Miss Julie Thatcher
will be reading us a chapter
from an exciting book
called...
The Enchanted Castle.
That's one
of my favorite books!
I know.
And I think that,
as my new teacher's apprentice,
it's only right for you to be
the one to read it to the class.
[SIGHS]
[LAUGHS]
I believe in you,
Julie, I do,
and I think that you deserve
to follow your dreams.
Thank you.
You will not regret this.
[CHUCKLES]
[INHALES DEEPLY]
Ahem.
"There were three of them--
"Jerry, Jimmy,
"and Kathleen.
"Of course,
"Jerry's name was Gerald,
"and not Jeremiah,
whatever you may think.
"Jimmy's name was James,
"and Kathleen was never called
by her name at all,
"but Cathy,
"or Catty,
or Puss Cat..."
[♪♪♪]